

  --------------------------  Laurens  --------------------------  


.DISCUSSION...(Today through next Saturday)
Issued at 300 AM EST Sun Jan 22 2023

- Light snow today -

An upper level system aided by some mid level frontogenetical
forcing and a broader area of weaker lift will combine to bring
light snow today. Very light snow accumulations of mostly under an
inch are fcst for most of our area today. The exception to this
is over our far se fcst area where mid level fgen is briefly
favorable this morning.

Therefore I would not be surprised to see an isolated higher
amount near two inches near KJXN or wherever mesoscale mid level
fgen banding briefly sets up in that vicinity. This system will
have minimal impacts given the light snow amounts and sfc temps
which will moderate through the lower to middle 30s today.

- Light snow north Monday night -

A brief period of lake effect/lake enhanced light snow is expected
over our nw fcst area Monday night as an upper level shortwave
traverses across the northern Great Lakes region. Light snow
accumulations on the order of an inch or two are expected near to
northwest of Big Rapids.

- Potential for snow Wednesday -

Low pressure over the Arklatex region will move ne to near KBUF by
late Wednesday night as suggested by latest ecmwf ensembles. This
system will have ample gulf moisture to work with and has the
potential to bring a swath of significant snow se of our fcst area
Wednesday through Wednesday night.

Some lighter snow accumulations on the order of 1 to 4 inches
seem possible for our area with relatively highest amounts over
our southern fcst area. Will need to monitor this system closely
as a track further nw would bring potential for more significant
snow into our area. This is not the most likely outcome for our
area but still within the range of possibilities.


  --------------------------  Meade  --------------------------  


.UPDATE...
Issued at 925 PM EST Sat Jan 21 2023

Echoes aloft are advancing from the southwest on radar, but it
will be quite a while until any light snow begins reaching the
ground here in southwest MI.

The 00Z DTX sounding came in very dry with a dew pt depression of
12C at 700mb and even drier just below that. (The 765mb level
showed a dew pt depression of 30C!) You have to go all the back
into ern Iowa to find snow reaching the ground at this hour.

So while radar echoes will continue to increase overnight
(especially on regional/national mosaics of multiple radars),
most of that will be aloft initially and it will probably take
until after 4 or 5 am to start seeing some snow at the sfc.

Total snow of an inch or less will probably be more the norm on
Sunday, with any 2" amounts fairly isolated and likely limited to
the far southeast CWFA around JXN. A few of the HiRes models have
been suggesting that the precip could have more of a banded
nature rather than a widespread/continuous character. This
possibility, combined with the dry air to overcome at the onset
and mild sfc temps of 32-24 on Sunday, suggests that some places
could see only trace accumulations.


  --------------------------  Duke  --------------------------  


.DISCUSSION...(This evening through next Saturday)
Issued at 343 PM EST Sat Jan 21 2023

-- Chance for light snow late tonight and Sunday --

The chance for light snow remains for late tonight and Sunday as
so does some uncertainty in terms of amounts and extent. It is
still a light snow event, but there are some models that are quite
light (trace to a half inch) and others that show a fairly
widespread 1-2 inches. The uncertainty with this event is
associated with the fact that there is a lack of a surface low and
the 850mb presentation is weak as well. Its a broad trough aloft
with weak surface features which is why we are seeing spread in
the models. We feel the best chance for accumulating snows will be
across our south and southeast CWA from AZO to LAN down to BTL
and JXN. These areas are where a more compact vorticity max moves
through and is closer to a weak 850mb low. Amounts will not be
significant by Michigan winter standards, but an inch or two will
be possible in these areas with inch or less amounts elsewhere.

-- Some very light snow Monday night into Tuesday --

Parameters come together for a brief period of lake effect snow
Monday night into Tuesday with a shortwave zipping through the
area in the mid levels. The northwest CWA up towards LDM is the
favored area for an inch or two of snow as delta T`s over the lake
briefly increase to around 13C.

-- Mid week system system bears watching but trending south --

Plenty of time to watch this system as it is still 4 days out.
Trying pinpoint the area of concern/swath of snow at that range in
the forecast is problematic given how this system evolves. Two
upper shortwaves of concern with this system are 1) currently
approaching the Pacific Northwest coast and 2) over the middle of
the Pacific south of Alaska. The interaction of these two waves
will determine whether we see impacts or not. The first wave dives
south into the Southern Plains and recurves north. The second
wave plows east across Canada and the Northern Plains and tries to
phase with the first. Yesterday there was a bit more phasing hence
a swath of snow in our area due to a closer and slower low track.
Today`s models and the latest trend is from less phasing and a
more progressive pattern leading to a low moving from TN to OH to
NY which is not the most favorable track for us. Bottom line we
will be watching this time frame closely as there may be a new
trend that emerges given the range in the forecast. We should know
more as we move into the Monday time frame.

Quite a bit of model disparity shows up toward the end of the work
week. Case in point, 7 days out from now, midday next Saturday the
GFS has -22C air over Western Lower Michigan whereas the ECMWF has
+2C air. Suffice it to say low confidence in the pattern and the
forecast out towards Friday and Saturday.


  --------------------------  Laurens  --------------------------  


.DISCUSSION...(Today through next Friday)
Issued at 300 AM EST Sat Jan 21 2023

- Light snow very late tonight into Sunday -

A sfc/upr trof will combine to bring light snow very late tonight
through early to mid afternoon Sunday. Polling of a blend of
short range model fcst soundings and bufkit x-sections shows deep
moisture through the dgz tomorrow but weak lift.

Given lack of stronger omegas/isentropic lift we expect the snow
to be light with only around an inch or less of accumulation
across our area. Impacts will be minimal given sfc temps near or
just below the freezing mark.

- Potential for stronger system Wednesday -

Tranquil wx is fcst Mon/Tue. A strengthening low pressure system
over the Arklatex region Tuesday night will move ne into the OH
valley region by late Wednesday. An overall medium range guidance
consensus continues to suggest potential for accumulating snowfall
across our area Wednesday and Wednesday night.

It is still far too early to get into too many fcst specifics
with this system given uncertainty on exact strength and track of
the system. The 00Z ecwmf ensemble mean for low location takes it
from far eastern KY to near PIT by 00Z Thur.

A track this far se would keep heaviest synoptic snow mostly se
of our area. We will continue to monitor this system closely as it
will have ample gulf moisture with it and potential to bring
significant snow accumulations. Colder temps are forecast behind
that system for late week into next weekend.


  --------------------------  Meade  --------------------------  


.UPDATE...
Issued at 749 PM EST Fri Jan 20 2023

We`ve been seeing some reports in the southwest corner of Lwr MI
that light freezing rain/drizzle is mixing in with the lake effect
snow showers.

Several ASOS sites have had unknown precip remarks in the
observations and a few have recently carried light freezing rain
(SBN, BEH, BTL). This was a concern of the previous shift and
makes sense given the shallow moisture profiles shown in the
latest HRRR soundings and the DGZ being just barely in the top of
the cloud layer.

Sfc temperatures are rather marginal (right around freezing) and
road temps are likely a few degrees warmer, so probably not much
in the way of any travel impacts, but did update the forecast to
reflect the mix. Still expecting the precipitation to wind down
later this evening and especially after midnight.


  --------------------------  Duke  --------------------------  


.DISCUSSION...(This evening through next Friday)
Issued at 345 PM EST Fri Jan 20 2023

-- Lake effect snow to wind down this evening --

Light lake effect snow will gradually wind down through the
evening hours. Moderating temperatures at 925mb and 850mb should
end the necessary instability for lake effect snow showers as we
work through the evening. Moisture is already trending shallow and
we should see moisture depth fall below 5,000ft this evening.
There will be some occasional lift into the moist layer so not out
of the realm of possibilities to see some patchy drizzle or
freezing drizzle with temperatures near the freezing mark. At this
point given the lower chance and lower confidence we have left it
out of the forecast.

-- Light accumulating snow Saturday night into Sunday --

A trough moving through both at the surface and aloft with bring
the chance for light accumulating snow Saturday night into Sunday.
At this time both operational models and ensemble members seem to
be converging on a 1 to 2 inch snowfall. Given the lighter amounts
and the fact that it is falling on a weekend we are not expecting
significant impacts. Given the fact though that we have not had
widespread accumulating snow in awhile, we will be hitting the
change up in conditions in text products as well as social media
posts. Temperatures will be near or just below 32F so mitigation
factors used by road commissions will be very effective. It is not
a bad presentation in BUFKIT overviews at all, with deep moisture
up through 15,000 to 20,000 feet. Deep lift is noted (albeit on
the weaker side) through the depth of the column. The most
impressive feature with the system is it has a healthy looking
500mb trough that is forming/deepening overhead. The lower
tropospheric presentation is less impressive with a lack of a
significant low at the surface, no real defined 850mb low and weak
isentropic lift. A 1 to 2 inch 12 to 18 hour snow is what we are
looking at. Again impacts should be low given its the weekend,
marginal surface temperatures and it being a longer duration.

-- Bigger threat for accumulating snow mid next week --

The most impactful system in the 7 day forecast is clearly the
system for mid next week. A Southern Plains low is forecast to
move northeast towards the Great Lakes on Tuesday and move through
the area on Wednesday. In the operational models, the ECMWF, GFS
and Canadian there is spread in where the low is located Wednesday
evening. Essentially anywhere in the Southern Great Lakes region
is fair game at this point. The ECMWF ensemble mean low position
is near Lake Erie Wednesday evening with many of the individual
members over Lake Erie or the state of Ohio. This is a favorable
position for our southern CWA (I-96 corridor to the south) to see
accumulating snow. It does appear at this time to be cold enough
in the ECWMF and GFS for snow looking at both surface temperatures
and 850mb temperatures. So, we will be watching this time frame
closely to monitor trends in the models on location of the swath
of heavier snow. At this time the swath of snow could be on the
order of 6+ inches given a moisture tap of gulf origins. That
said, gulf moisture does not completely surge into the state.


  --------------------------  Thielke  --------------------------  


.DISCUSSION...(Today through next Thursday)
Issued at 318 AM EST Fri Jan 20 2023

- Lingering Precip Into Afternoon

While we may see a brief lull in precipitation coverage early
this morning, another shortwave will drop south near 12z
resulting in an uptick through this afternoon. Cold advection with
the shortwave will support a transition to snow with lake
enhancement expected to keep the precipitation orientated along
and west of US-131. Generally around a dusting of snow is
expected, and with mild temps, impacts are expected to be limited.
Dry weather will settle back in late this afternoon and evening.

- Widespread Light Snow Sunday

Dry weather lasts through Saturday as high pressure moves into the
region. Chances for widespread light snow increase early Sunday
morning as a system passes by to our southeast. The bulk of the
moisture with this system will stay focused southeast of the
state, but a band of mid-level deformation over the Great Lakes
will bring widespread light snow for our area with minor
accumulations of an inch or two possible. Snow showers should
diminish in coverage by Sunday evening as the low to our southeast
moves further away.

- Snow Chances Again Wednesday

High pressure moves back into the region leading to dry weather
Monday and Tuesday. By Wednesday the potential increases for a
stronger storm system to move through the region. As usual for
forecast models this far out, there remains uncertainty on the
overall storm evolution, including the strength and main track of
the storm. For instance, the GFS continues to portray a stronger
and wetter system that tracks through southeast lower MI, while
the Euro is slightly weaker and drier with a track slightly more
to the southeast. Looking at ensemble output, there is a decent
amount of spread on snowfall amounts for both the Euro and the GFS
ensembles with amounts ranging from trace up to 8 inches.
Acknowledging those sizable discrepancies, we`ll need some time
to work out the details of this system.


  --------------------------  Meade  --------------------------  


.UPDATE...
Issued at 956 PM EST Thu Jan 19 2023

Highest coverage of rain this evening has been over southern
sections, within elongated H5 shear zone containing several
vorticty maxima. Coverage in this zone is expected to gradually
diminish overnight as the main upper low over the ern GrtLks Rgn
continues moving slowly east, followed by a brief lull in PoPs
before another shortwave drops in from the northwest toward 12Z
Friday. This wave is accompanied by cold advection and perhaps
some lake enhancement, so expect highest pops by daybreak to be
oriented near/west of Highway 131. Rain should begin mixing with
snow overnight and changing to mostly snow toward or shortly after
daybreak as H8 air near -10C arrives. Only a dusting of
accumulation (mostly on grass) and minimal impacts expected given
marginal/mild sfc temps in the mid 30s.


  --------------------------  04  --------------------------  


.DISCUSSION...(This evening through next Thursday)
Issued at 306 PM EST Thu Jan 19 2023

...Turning colder...

Water vapor imagery shows a well defined upper low over northwest
IN. We are on the north side of the low track and will stay stuck in
the stratus or a while. Currently an upper dry slot is moving over
the cwa and has temporarily ended precipitation over the cwa. The
reprieve will be short lived. A potent trailing upper short wave
will rotate in this evening and spread light rain through the cwa
which will turn to some light snow by late evening. Highest chance
of seeing precipitation will be over the southern 2/3 of the cwa.
One complicating factor is that the DGZ becomes unsaturated after
06z. However, synoptic pcpn will be waning after this time and so if
freezing drizzle occurs, impacts will be limited.

Some light lake effect snow is possible west of US-131 overnight
with accumulations less than an inch; over-lake instability is
marginal with h8 temps near -10c.

...Chance of snow Sunday and again Wednesday...

Both the ECMWF and GFS show phasing between northern and southern
stream short waves Saturday over the Plains. As this elongated
trough moves across the Great Lakes, we`ll see light snow develop
very late Saturday night and continue Sunday. An inch or two
accumulation is possible. Moisture transport northward ahead of the
trough is not impressive and gets stuck along the Ohio Valley. Thus
the limited accums.

A stronger storm may be in the offing for the middle of next week.
The GFS is much stronger with a low moving out of the Gulf then the
ECMWF but both bring the system northeast toward Lower MI. The
supporting short wave on the GFS is stronger than the ECMWF and
phases better with the  northern stream trough. Given the colder air
in place, the precipitation would likely be snow. It`s still a long
way off, though, to pin down details.


  --------------------------  04  --------------------------  


.UPDATE...
Issued at 1047 AM EST Thu Jan 19 2023

We are going to leave the headline as is; it`ll expire at noon. A
quick call to law enforcement over the northeast cwa indicates
several accidents attributable to slick conditions. Additionally,
web cam
s show snow covered surfaces within the advisory area.

Warmer temperatures are slowly working their way north and will
mitigate icing as the afternoon wears on.

Radar continues to show a fuzzy appearance over the I-96 area,
indicative of drizzle that we see outside. Bufkit RH progs show
lift in the cloud layer is about to end, which should correspond
to a decrease in radar echos.


  --------------------------  Thielke  --------------------------  


.DISCUSSION...(Today through next Wednesday)
Issued at 331 AM EST Thu Jan 19 2023

- Ongoing Mixed Precipitation Through This Morning

Current surface obs (as of 2:30AM) show temperatures still above
freezing for most of the area, but areas up near Clare, Osceola,
Mecosta and Isabella Counties are beginning to drop a little closer
to freezing. The primary p-type is still expected to be rain south
of the advisory area, but some sleet may mix in within the next few
hours. A mixture of p-types is still expected across the advisory
area with sleet expected to be more prevalent than freezing rain.
Areas north of US-10 may be cold enough for some light snow
accumulations.

Easterly winds are also gusty early this morning, with lakeshore
sites such as Holland and Muskegon reporting gusts to 35 to 40 mph.
Winds will stay breezy and then will weaken shortly after sunrise.
The lakeshore is expected to face the brunt of the strongest gusts,
but areas inland may see a few hours of easterly gusts to 30 to 35
mph.

Precipitation should diminish in coverage near mid-day as a dry slot
noses into the CWA. Drizzle may persist, however, while
temperatures warm into the 40s south of I-96 and into the mid 30s
into the advisory area. Thus, any snow or ice accumulation from
this morning will likely melt into this afternoon.

There will be another uptick in rain this evening from I-96
southwards with a low chance for thunder staying to our southeast
where better convective parameters exist.

- Lingering Snow into Friday Morning

The main area of low pressure will move eastwards this afternoon and
evening with colder air wrapping into the state from the northwest.
850mb temps will fall into the -5 to -10C range while a mid-level
vort max slides down the backside of the departing closed low. Some
bands of lake effect snow may develop tonight into Friday.
Accumulations should stay light (less than 1 inch) but some
impacts to the Friday morning commute will be possible.

- Some Accumulating Snow Possible Saturday Night into Sunday

Any lingering lake effect snow will dwindle Friday evening, then
conditions turn dry for much of Saturday as high pressure builds in
from the south. Additional rounds of precipitation continue to look
possible late Saturday into Sunday as a system tracks through OH
and IN. While the bulk of the heavier precip will be well to our
southeast, this system will still have the potential to generate
some impacts for southwest MI with a couple of inches of snow
possible.


  --------------------------  Meade  --------------------------  


.UPDATE...
Issued at 1008 PM EST Wed Jan 18 2023

There are no plans to modify/expand the Winter Weather Advisory
at this time.

Current sfc temperatures are in the mid to upper 30s near and
south of I-96, whereas many locations to the north are 33 to 35.
Dew points are still in the mid to upper 20s across the majority
of the area with the exception of the I-94 corridor which is
slightly above 32. The 00Z DTX showed considerable dry air above
850 mb.

There have been numerous MPING reports of sleet mixing in with
the rain across Chicago-land this evening. Based on the 00Z DTX
sounding as well as HRRR fcst soundings, suspect we`ll see a
similar situation here. Soundings show a warm nose above 0C
between roughly 4-6K feet, but a sub-freezing layer between about
1-3K.

While sfc temps may lower a tad once precip commences due to wet
bulb effects, the primary p-type is expected to be rain south of
the advisory area. (although some sleet mixed in for awhile at
the onset). A mixture of precip types is still supported across
the advisory area, although soundings and sfc temps suggest that
sleet may be more prevalent than freezing rain.

Exception may be across the area north of a Big Rapids to Clare
line where sfc temps may be just cold enough to support some
freezing rain and/or light accumulations of snow. However road
temps are still in the mid to upr 30s so impacts may be delayed.

East winds will be cranking up overnight and the hourly HRRR
updates continue to show 40-45 mph gusts developing after
midnight. This may be a bit on the high side, but there are some
peak gusts reports of 30-35 kts currently noted in nrn IL.


  --------------------------  MJS  --------------------------  


.DISCUSSION...(This evening through next Wednesday)
Issued at 203 PM EST Wed Jan 18 2023

-Mixed precipitation developing tonight for parts of the region

Guidance is generally settling in on a period of snow...sleet then
freezing rain/drizzle for interior Lower MI including Big
Rapids...Mount Pleasant and Harrison for later tonight into
Thursday morning. This is the region that is most likely to see
surface temperatures falling to near or just under freezing
tonight. Impacts are looking likely.  We issued a winter weather
advisory as a result for these locations.

The approaching warm front and associated overrunning
precipitation will be the main source for the precipitation. Mid
level FGEN is noted tonight on the north side of the front as
well. With a dry slot in the 700 to 500 mb layer pushing north of
the CWA by noon Thursday...we will only feature the headline
until then. If surface temperatures stay below freezing during the
afternoon and we still have drizzle persisting its possible that
the headline may need to be extended in those region. Another item
monitor is whether impacts will occur tonight for places like
Muskegon...Grand Rapids and Lansing. If surface temperatures end
up a degree or two lower tonight...we may need to shift the
headlines further south. Generally though...that is not the most
likely scenario so no headlines for those locations...but close
monitoring will be needed.

-Impacts for the Friday morning commute?

As the wave of low pressure pulls away later Thursday afternoon
into early Friday...the colder air will filter/wrap back in. In
the mid levels...the associated closed low tracks through MI and
most models suggest that around 12z Fri...a vort max may dig into
the backside of this departing feature. If this happens...in the
colder air...we could see some stronger bands of snow around.
Based on this...we may see some impacts on the roads then...which
will be near the morning commute Friday.

-Possible accumulating snow Saturday night to Sunday

A weak surface wave is shown to track east northeast through OH
and IN during this timeframe. The accompanying positive tilted mid
level trough will be tracking eastward through the CWA during
this period as well. The GFS is showing deep moisture...mid level
FGEN and decent omega in the DGZ. The surface temperatures remain
below freezing for most of the event. Thus...this system has the
potential to generate some impacts. The Canadian and ECMWF are
also supportive for a couple of inches of snow as well.

-A surge of arctic air possible end of next week

Models are showing a stronger mid level wave and associated cold
front tracking through the area on Thursday. Behind these features
it looks like the region will see a surge of arctic air tracking
in. How long it lasts is unclear. The GFS and Canadian model are
much more aggressive with this airmass...showing 925 mb temps
dropping down to -20 to -25 deg C...while the ECMWF takes the
values down to -15 deg C keeping most of the arctic air in
Ontario. Also the Canadian and GFS are showing a stronger surface
wave generating a swath of snow here in MI...while the ECMWF has
this feature displace southeast of the CWA.


  --------------------------  Thielke  --------------------------  


.DISCUSSION...(Today through next Tuesday)
Issued at 309 AM EST Wed Jan 18 2023

- Next System Arrives Late Tonight

A bit of light drizzle persists across a few spots early this
morning, but as upper subsidence settles in this morning
conditions will dry out near sunrise. Attention now turns to the
next low pressure system that will move into lower MI late tonight
into Thursday morning.

As a warm front lifts north late tonight, steady precipitation
will move into the area. Mainly rain is expected for the southern
zones, while areas further north may see a period of mixed
precipitation at the onset as the front slowly moves north. There
remains uncertainty on exactly where the zone of mixed
precipitation will occur, but there is increased confidence that
along and north of the I-96 corridor will be the main area of
focus. This mixed precipitation/snow will be short lived, as the
warm advection pushes the freezing line further north Thursday
morning and areas near Big Rapids and Mount Pleasant see a shift
towards rain.

Precipitation will continue through Thursday afternoon before this
system slides east. Slightly colder air will move into the area on
the backside of this system, resulting in highs generally in the 30s
by this weekend. This persistent northwest flow will result in light
lake effect showers into Friday alongside persistent cloud cover.

- Slightly More Active Conditions For Next Week

Ridging builds into the area later in the day on Friday and lasts
through Saturday. There then remains uncertainty on the potential
for a Sunday system, but current leanings stay with the more
consistent ECMWF which portrays a more southern route for this
possible southern stream system.

While this stronger system may mostly miss us to our southeast,
the overall pattern will shift more active into next week with
increased upper troughing into the area. This will result in
unsettled weather with frequent scattered rain/snow into the first
half of next week.


  --------------------------  Duke  --------------------------  


.UPDATE...
Issued at 1038 PM EST Tue Jan 17 2023

Precipitation has all but ended across the area as the low
pressure system responsible for the precipitation the last 24
hours fills/moves off to the east. At 03Z, the low was centered
over Georgian Bay on Northeast Lake Huron. Temperatures will not
fall much tonight as extensive clouds remain in place. Latest
satellite imagery shows clouds extending through both the Upper
Midwest and the Northern Plains. A fair amount of wind will remain
in the profile as well overnight which will also aid in keeping
temperatures steady. Lows should generally be in the lower to
middle 30s.


  --------------------------  MJS  --------------------------  


.DISCUSSION...(This evening through next Tuesday)
Issued at 307 PM EST Tue Jan 17 2023

.Light Rain/drizzle tapering off this evening
The surface low over Northern Lower MI this afternoon will track
east this evening.  Deeper moisture associated with this system here
in Southwest Lower MI will also pull off to the east. Bufkit
profiles show the DGZ becoming unsaturated here in GRR around 00z
Wed. However the low level flow remains convergent and moist...as
the winds veer off to the west northwest through tonight. Thus low
clouds will prevail...with perhaps some drizzle tonight. A fairly
strong signal for low level subsidence arrives Wed so we should see
the some breaks in the clouds developing then.

.Winter impacts potential on the increase for Wednesday night into
Thursday

The next low pressure system tracks in from the southwest for
Wednesday night into Thursday. Ahead of the main area of
precipitation...surface temperatures will be cooling off
Wednesday evening here in Southwest Lower MI. As an associated
warm front lifts towards the CWA from the south...steady precipitation
will be spreading in. Our southern zones should see mainly a rain
event...however further north...at the onset...forecast soundings
and critical thickness values support a zone of mixed
precipitation developing. There is some uncertainty exactly where
that zone will be...but confidence in on the increase that the
southern end of mixed precipitation will be located just north of
Interstate 96 to start. The onset should be snow for the northern
locations such as Harrison as soundings show the web bulb profile
below freezing. As the warm front lifts further north Thursday
morning the rain/mixed precipitation line is forecast to shift
north toward Big Rapids and Mount Pleasant. Models continue to
show a significant dry slot with this system which is expected to
cut back on the total qpf from this system for our CWA. That
feature arrives later Wednesday night into into Thursday morning.
The mid to upper level low arrives Thursday afternoon from the
west...thus another round of steady precipitation will resume then
for parts of the area. While much of the region will feature
above freezing temperatures by the time the steady precipitation
resumes...interior Lower MI may still be around freezing...so a
risk for continued impacts may exist.

.Another storm system approaches for Sunday
The GFS is tracking the area of impactful snow well into the CWA
as compared to most of the other models keeping the snow further
south. Aloft the GFS is showing much stronger upper level
divergence for MI. This model has not shown good continuity with
this feature so we will not favor it. We will favor the ECMWF and
Canadian which show the strongest energy staying south of the CWA.


  --------------------------  Thielke  --------------------------  


.DISCUSSION...(Today through next Monday)
Issued at 325 AM EST Tue Jan 17 2023

- Spotty Rain Continues Today, Switch to Snow Possible This Evening

Temperatures still sit comfortably above freezing as of 3am with
temps ranging from the 40s to the south and down into the mid 30s to
the north. Meanwhile radar continues to show spotty showers and
drizzle across the area, but given the mild temps the concern for
freezing rain/drizzle is low at this time. While we may still cool a
few degrees within the next few hours, wet bulb temps will hold
above freezing, so the outlook for freezing precip for the rest of
this morning looks minimal.

This low pressure system will move northeast by this evening
resulting in the upper flow shifting northwesterly. Colder air will
filter into the area, and any lingering rain may mix in with snow
late tonight mainly across central and northern lower MI.

- Bigger System Late Wednesday/Thursday Morning

Moisture wanes shortly after midnight as the low pulls further away,
thus any lingering precipitation should end by sunrise Wednesday
morning. Dry conditions will dominate much of the day Wednesday
before our next Southern Plains system arrives late Wednesday
night into early Thursday.

There remains fairly good consistency in model output on the overall
evolution of this system. Subtle differences still exist however,
which lead to a small amount of uncertainty on the track of the
system and thus precipitation amounts and the location of the
rain/snow line. Given the early morning arrival of the system,
temperatures that will be near to slightly above freezing will bring
the possibility for a rain/snow mix at the onset. The greatest
chance for snow accumulations will exist across the northern half of
the CWA, particularly areas north of I-96. Warm advection will
increase Thursday afternoon, leading to a northward shift of the
rain/snow line towards US-10 by mid-afternoon.

The flow shifts northwesterly on Friday as the Southern Plains low
exits east. There is a chance we could see some effects of this
lingering northwest flow into Friday, but certainty is low at the
moment.

- Mostly Dry Weekend

Moisture continues to dwindle across the area into this weekend as
high pressure builds in from our west. Uncertainty increases into
Sunday as models diverge on possible scenarios. The ECMWF remains
fairly dry through this weekend, while the more active GFS suggests
another system moves in from the southwest.
